Good afternoon, my name is Natalia Smirnova, I am a consultant of BTEC company, or Business Engineering Technologies.
Our company is engaged in operational consulting, that is, we are engaged in the production and process management of many companies, both Russian and foreign.
It is logical to assume that this is what my today's course will be dedicated to.
Before we start, let's talk about what we will be talking about today.
First, we will discuss the process management system, what it is.
Then we will see how the identification and allocation of business processes is done, on which all the processes are built.
Then we will see how these business processes are described, because not only do they have to be allocated, but they also need to be described.
Then we will see how we can analyze business processes before we optimize them.
Because, according to experience, 90% of business processes need to be optimized.
Therefore, we describe business processes not to get beautiful pictures, but to do something with these pictures.
Next, we will see what methods exist, what methods of business processes optimization exist.
Then we will see about the regulations.
The regulations in most companies are that no one needs the documentation that is stored somewhere on the shelves and absolutely no one needs it.
In fact, in the process management system, regulations are necessary that will act, that will be used.
We will talk about this separately.
Then we will see about the assessment of the cost of business processes.
What is it?
Not only do you need to describe a business process, analyze it, regulate it, but you also need to assess it so that you can manage its cost.
Otherwise, why would you implement a process management system?
And in the end, we will see how this business process is built according to the process management system.
I will tell you about an example of how we did it using the example of a number of companies.
Process Management System
So, let's move on to the very first point.
This is a process management system.
Where did it all come from?
Surely, you all know that in the early 16th and even earlier centuries there was a simple craft production.
The craftsman was engaged in all business processes on his own.
He had no one, or at most there were a couple of assistants.
There was nothing special.
And he himself was engaged in both the purchase of materials and the manufacture of leather products, and so on.
And he developed a strategy for his development, marketing, and so on.
If, of course, he knew these words.
Therefore, everyone was led by one person.
We can say that all his crafts were a single business process.
And he was the only owner.
What happened over time?
Over time, this happened.
In 1776, Adam Smith developed the concept of functionality.
That is, it means that now we have more than one person doing everything.
And each of us is engaged in what he does best.
It seems to be a completely logical concept.
Indeed, why do you, specialists, well, let's say, in logistics, still engage in marketing, strategies, and the description of business processes?
And IT, and translations, and phone calls, and coffee trays, and so on.
Absolutely unnecessary.
That is why Adam Smith proposed the concept of functional division.
That is, from there, functional-oriented companies were born, which, unfortunately, are now the majority.
This means that each specialist is engaged in his own narrow area of ​​activity, in which he, in which he has no equal.
For example, there is a specialist like you, in logistics, or finance, or marketing.
But this does not mean that you are engaged in all marketing.
You are engaged in some small part of it.
For example, in cooperation with large clients in the field of PR.
Over time, this has taken on some ugly forms.
Because there were too many narrow specialists.
Everyone was engaged in a very, very narrow part of the activity.
And as a result, no one was responsible for the whole business process.
That is, as a result, the company began to turn into a group of small specialists,
each of whom did not know what his neighbor was doing in the room.
And so, sooner or later, we had to come to the point that we partially returned to the times of craft production.
What is it?
We finally have these small, scattered pieces of functions, and unified processes began to take shape.
But, unlike the very first time, when all production was considered as a single process,
now we have processes that are different.
On the main, on the business processes of management.
And each of each process has its owner.
Narrow specialists participate in the processes.
Please, nothing changes here for health.
The most important thing is that there is responsibility,
and you can ask, what is wrong in the process?
What is the result? What is the input? What is the output?
What are the participants? Who is responsible for what?
And finally, it becomes easier to manage the company.
Probably because of this, the process management system now has more and more adherents,
and many, many companies.
And if before the process management system was the prerogative of only the most advanced Western companies,
now the process management is implemented by small and medium companies of the Russian Federation.
Let's consider the differences between the functional system and the process management system.
If we take a factory for the production of some products,
let's say, there are three workers working there.
If we have a factory built according to the principle of functional division, what happens?
The first worker only buys.
He does not care what happens next.
His task is to buy.
He buys at the most attractive price,
from the best suppliers, everything is great.
He bought everything he needed.
What to do next is not his problem.
He does not care. He does not care at all.
He did his job well, got a salary and went home happily.
The second worker.
The second worker gets this material and makes something out of it.
The second worker does not care whether the consumer needs it or not.
Maybe the consumer has completely different requirements for this product.
He does not care either.
His task is to get the material to the warehouse and then to transfer it to the sales manager.
He is not interested in anything else.
He did his job from A to B and then his function is over.
The next worker.
He took what was made and sells it.
It is not important to tell the manufacturer that he needs a different product.
The main thing is to sell it.
What does it lead to?
The organization is not inclined to make changes quickly,
efficiently and smoothly.
It reacts very slowly to changes in the environment
and, in the end, it spends its competitive advantages.
If this factory worked on the principle of a process control system,
what would change?
The first worker.
He would be responsible for the purchase, production and sale of one product.
Let's say, chairs.
The second worker would be responsible for the purchase, production and sale of the third product.
Let's say, refrigerators.
The second product would be computers.
The second or third worker would be responsible for this.
Thus, each worker is fully responsible for the entire business process.
The purchase, sale and production of one product.
What does it lead to?
The worker is aware of the consumer's requirements.
He knows the needs of suppliers.
He knows the features of the company's production.
He can react quickly, efficiently and smoothly to changes in the environment.
Suppliers may have changed something.
They began to produce a more suitable material.
Or the consumer may have new requirements for the product.
This means that the consumer can quickly change the production process,
purchase or sale of a product.
The process changes quickly.
Unlike the first case, when everyone is aware of the business process,
although most of them do not know what the neighbor is doing.
Let's consider the functional approach and the process approach.
Let's compare what is good and what is bad.
Based on what I just said, you may think that the functional approach is not suitable for anyone.
It is a rudiment.
It is not needed by anyone.
It is wrong.
Both approaches have their pros and cons.
I want to note that the process approach is not suitable for all companies.
Let's look at the pros and cons in more detail.
If we talk about the functional approach, what are its pros?
The pros are obvious.
The first one is less expensive.
Most likely, you know that a universal specialist who understands many issues
is more expensive than a specialist who understands issues from A to B.
But he understands this issue well.
Therefore, if there are no such specialists in your company,
the transition to the process approach means a sharp increase in the salary of such new universal specialists.
As for the pros of the process approach,
it is responsible for the overall result.
If in the case of the first functional option,
no one at this factory was responsible for what the factory produces,
then in the second case, one manager who was responsible for the purchase, production and sale of a particular product,
was responsible for the whole process.
And we could be sure as the managers of such a factory that both the supplier and the consumer are satisfied.
And if they are not satisfied, then the manager will fix everything.
The pros are flexibility, speed, efficiency of decision-making.
As for the cons, there is no place without them.
Everything cannot be wonderful and chocolate.
The functional approach.
What are the cons?
The cons are opposite to the pros of the process approach.
If the process approach is flexible, then the functional approach is not flexible.
This is the lack of speed in decision-making on the change of the process.
This is the lack of responsibility for the overall result of the process.
This is the lack of efficiency of the whole process.
Yes, your divisions can work perfectly.
The buyer buys everything quickly.
The manufacturer produces everything very quickly.
The seller sells everything quickly and you don't have anything in the warehouse for a long time.
But for some reason your suppliers are not optimal over time,
with higher prices than on the market.
And your customers refuse you for some reason,
because you need to sell differently.
Further.
The functional approach cannot be without problems at the junction between divisions.
If you have a lot of specialists involved in the process,
who understand their narrow problems,
then the transition from one specialist to another,
each work in the business process leads to problems.
One transition is one problem, another transition is another problem,
more and more.
The more specialists in your network,
who are involved in your business process,
the more problems there will be.
And be sure that it will be very difficult to change such a process.
It is easier to do it from scratch.
And finally, this leads to conflicts between divisions,
or between specialists, people, groups, and so on.
The disadvantages of the process approach.
He also has disadvantages.
He is not perfect.
First, he is more expensive.
And there is duplication of work.
Let's go back to the example of the factory.
In the first case, one manager was engaged in the purchase.
In the second case, the manager was engaged in the purchase and production of sales.
The second manager was engaged in the purchase and production of sales.
The third manager was engaged in the purchase and production of sales.
And so on.
In fact, the purchase was done by three people.
This is duplication.
This is a complication.
But let's remember the advantages.
It is the responsibility for the result.
It is a better product.
Further.
Let's say that we have a few such managers in our company.
And we need a person in each of the processes who will help.
From the point of view of marketing, for example.
But such a specialist is the only one.
How to break him between three processes?
Let's say that we have three managers.
Responsible for the chair, for the computer, and for something else.
But we have only one marketing specialist.
Which business process should you include?
This is unknown.
This is a conflict of resources.
This is not clear.
This is also a minus of the process approach.
Especially if you have very few narrowly specialized workers.
Accordingly, if we have few specialists in our company, who understand everything.
Then we have a conflict of resources.
And we can not equally divide them into different business processes.
You have to sit with the same specialist in this process, and in this, and in this, and in this.
That is, a conflict of resources.
And the third drawback of the process approach is that we have high requirements for specialists.
In a company where a process approach is implemented,
one person can not sit alone to hand over a piece of paper from department A to department B.
That's it.
This means that the specialist must perform the maximum functions.
Otherwise, why do you need such a narrowly specialized person in the company?
Not in all organizations this is possible.
Therefore, if in your company you have a lot of specialists, who do some very small, small, small work.
This means that the process approach is temporary for you.
Until there are more, more universal specialists, who understand a large number of functions and work.
Now we have come to the most important point, which in our course will probably be without it.
It makes no sense to continue.
This is the difference between a business process and a function.
Now we talked about the process approach and the functional approach.
I think you already roughly understand the difference between a process and a function.
If you formulated the definition of a business process in your own way, how do you think, how would you formulate it?
Well, probably you would say that this is a connection of several works or functions,
which are designed to transform something at the input into something that will be at the output.
Otherwise, any process happens.
A business process is not an exception.
And it is very important here that there is something at the input and something at the output.
And to the fact that at the output and to the fact that at the input certain requirements are presented.
If the process has no result, then it is not a business process, it is not clear what.
If we talk about a function, then it is a component of a business process.
This is a certain work, repetitive, which can be included in several business processes.
But the main thing is just a repetitive periodic action.
There is no emphasis on the fact that it is designed to transform something at the input into something at the output.
That is why if we compare a business process and a function,
then we can give the following characteristics to a function and a business process.
Let's start with a function as a component of a business process.
A function is a set of homogeneous activities.
Homogeneous means that they are identical, similar.
For example, a purchase.
In general, this is a function.
Next, this is a set of narrowly specialized activities.
For example, PR, cooperation with the media.
These are all functions that are included in a business process marketing.
And then, the most important, I emphasize again,
that a function is a component of a business process.
A brick from which a whole wall is made.
If we move on to a business process, then it is a set of various types of activities.
We remember that in the example of a factory we talked about a business process,
which is called from purchase to sale.
That is, there are functions of purchase, sale and production.
If we talk about a business process,
we also take into account that business processes are interconnected.
That is, they are not separate functions that exist in nature and in your company.
They are connected to each other.
The entrance of one business process is the exit of another business process, and so on.
If the process is not connected to anything, it is not needed.
Or this is a sign of inoptimism, it needs to be tied to something.
This is the presence of entrances and exits.
A business process is another important feature of it.
We remember that a business process is designed to transform something into something.
If the transformation does not take place, then it is not a business process.
Next, the presence of results.
And if there is no result, and this is some kind of partiality,
or it is not clear what, then this is an improvement.
A business process is either wrongly allocated, or it functions incorrectly.
That is, something needs to be done with it.
And most importantly, it consists of functions.
Thus, we have compared a function and a business process.
And now, when we talk about a business process,
we mean the whole function, which is designed to transform an input into a result.
And now the most interesting thing.
How does the process management system in an organization work?
What do you think it starts with?
For example, someone will tell you that you need to describe a process,
or you need to allocate processes,
or you need to quickly follow the structure of the company and start allocating something from it.
I do not want to upset you, but both answers will be wrong.
Because you need to start with the most important thing, with the strategy of the company's development.
Without understanding where your company is going, you will not be able to allocate business processes,
because you will not be able to understand which business directions are key to your activities.
And this means that you will not be able to allocate processes to the main and providing ones.
If you do not know the strategy of the company's development,
you will not be able to analyze business processes,
which are important, which are less important,
which are problematic, which are less problematic, and so on.
If you do not know the strategy of your company,
you will not know the needs of your clients,
and you will not be able to form the right requirements for the result of all your business processes.
Without the strategy, it is not possible to implement the process management system.
The strategy is not a piece of paper that is taken from the company,
and then it is not shown to anyone,
and it is put on the shelves along with the regulations.
The strategy is a real concept that everyone in the organization knows.
One way or another, but they should know it.
When there is a strategy, we can safely move on to allocating business processes.
The first point is that we have developed a strategy of the company
and brought it to each unit, to each employee.
The balance score card is used for this,
that is, the BSC system.
I think you will be told about it in another course.
Next, when we already have a strategy,
we allocate business processes to the company,
then we describe them, go further, look at the processes,
and describe it all again to each employee.
Now, when we have described it all,
we analyze it all according to the strategy that we have developed before.
And then, when we have described it all, analyzed it, optimized it,
we have regulated the processes that have already been optimized,
and after that, we will have specific positions in the organization.
After everything is optimized,
we will be able to develop our ideal organization.
In most companies, the organization is created almost from the beginning,
without understanding the basic and providing business processes.
Therefore, it is often not optimal,
it does not collide with the processes.
In the process management system, the process is the primary,
and not the structure.
In the functional approach, everything is vice versa.
The structure is more important, and the processes are not so important.
Let's consider, for example, some companies,
let's call them Evrica,
how the organizational structure of the company can look like,
where the process approach is implemented,
and where the functional approach is implemented.
Let's say we have a company,
it is engaged in the purchase of tea, clothes, and furniture.
Well, an absurd example, but nevertheless.
If we implement a functional approach there,
we will have a department of purchase,
a department of storage, and a department of sale.
It does not matter that it deals with three absolutely incompatible types of activities,
tea, clothes, and furniture.
It does not matter at all, there will be three departments.
If the process approach was implemented in this company,
its organizational structure would be completely different.
There would be a department of tea, clothes, and furniture.
Thus, we understand that in the second case,
in the department of tea, there would be departments of purchase,
tea, storage, tea, and sale of tea.
The same would apply to furniture and clothes.
In the case of a functional approach in the company,
in the department of purchases,
there would be managers of tea, clothes, and furniture.
Storage, sales, everything is the same.
I want to say right away that I have never seen a company
where the process approach was implemented to such an extent.
In principle, this is not always necessary,
because the creative organizational structure,
which has existed for many years and is not always absolutely harmful,
does not make sense.
You can make an intermediate compromise option,
which is called the matrix.
Let's say, in the case of the same company,
the matrix option would look like this,
that it would have at the same time a department of purchases, storage, and sales,
but there would also be a manager of tea, furniture, and clothes.
In principle, this would allow each manager to examine the entire business process
and to see its problems, inputs, outputs, results, satisfaction of customers,
interaction with suppliers, and so on, to observe all participants.
But this would lead to a very serious minus.
This main minus is that all participants in the business process
of tea, furniture, and clothes would be two bosses.
The first is the head of the department of purchases,
and the second is the project manager.
If their wishes were conflicted,
then the performer would not know whom to submit to.
The principle of double submission is the main minus of such a compromise option.
Therefore, if you do not have a compromise option,
then you will have to decide what the structure will be,
whether it will be a process or a matrix one,
or maybe you will choose a functional one.
So, we have already talked a lot about business processes,
that everything is great,
but do business processes really exist?
Our clients often ask us questions.
You have described all these business processes,
but it seems to us that they do not exist.
They exist, but in fact, they are very fragmented.
As I said, the fact is that in most companies there is a functional approach,
so it is very difficult to collect a bunch of small functions,
narrow-specialized functions,
and it is also very difficult to see it as a whole.
Secondly, they are not formalized and not described.
In fact, in most companies we worked with,
how is the business process described?
It's an amazing spectacle.
Separately, there is some instruction from some manager for some reason,
separately, there is an instruction from some department,
separately, there is a position of the departments.
They do not clash with each other in principle,
or they are absolute copies,
only the cap is different.
This is not a description of business processes,
it is just a list of functions that came to the head of the person who wrote it,
when he was given this task, and he was told that this task should have been done yesterday.
Next.
Business processes exist.
They cannot be not exist,
because otherwise the company would have collapsed.
But in most companies,
even taking into account the fact that they exist,
no one is responsible for the result.
Or it happens only in a number of business processes, not in all.
Therefore, if no one is responsible for the result,
no one sees the situation as a whole,
again, the business process is not visible to anyone at all,
and it can be considered that it does not exist.
Next.
Very often business processes are very fragmented.
That is, many specialists participate in this business process,
no one knows what it is all about.
Therefore, they can be considered to be part of something,
of one big company,
but it is not clear what their activity leads to.
Very often there is additional control in organizations for each transfer.
That is, if one manager transfers the result of his work to another manager,
then to the third, fourth, fifth,
there is a conflict at every crossroads,
there is a check, a checkpoint,
and this control leads to the fact that all the connection with what should be at the output is lost.
It is not clear at all, but everything is controlled.
And most importantly, very often there is no relevant IT support
to describe and optimize business processes.
Believe me, describing business processes in RDA is not the most wonderful thing.
So, if you, as a manager of an organization,
decided that your organization should have a process management system,
how to build it step by step?
Step number one.
Select business processes.
Until we talk about their description,
until we just select them.
That is, the main business processes that provide business management processes.
Great.
There should be about 20 of them, no more.
Next.
We describe them.
We describe only the boundaries,
that is, at the input and at the output.
In order to make sure that we have selected them correctly,
each business process has its own clear and definite result.
Maybe at this stage we will correct the selection.
Next.
We describe them.
Namely, the composition of the functions that each of them includes.
And we describe the executors for each and every function.
Next.
When we have described all of this,
we assign the owners for each business process.
For the first process, for the second, for the third, for the fourth, for the fifth.
And when we have highlighted all of this,
finally, we can regulate this business process,
create a system of accounting for the business process,
and put it all on the owners of this business process,
who will observe this system
and regularly report to their boss about how things are going in their business process.
Usually, there are many business process reports.
They are different in each organization.
In principle, there is a plan-fact report on indicators for each project, that is, KPI.
It can be a card of some contract,
if we take the business process at the lowest level.
In principle, the accounting system can be any.
It can be in Wardia, it can be in Excel,
it can be in your corporate information system.
The main thing is that it is there,
otherwise no one will need the business process description.
And all this accounting system for business processes
must be combined with your operating accounting system and management accounting system.
That is, all these accounting systems must be bound together.
Otherwise, you have one accounting system for processes,
management accounting is another, financial accounting is something else,
operational accounting is generally something else,
strategic accounting is nothing at all.
Everything should be a single accounting system.
Accordingly, what can you implement the business process management system in your company for?
The answer to this question you must ask yourself, your management,
before you dive into the process approach of your company.
Because, as with absolutely any innovation, you need to set a goal.
Why are you doing this?
The answer like, it's fashionable, everyone does it, I think it will help us, is not accepted.
It should be a real, justified answer.
For example, you need to increase the controllability and transparency of your company, of your business.
Or you need to optimize business processes, you have too high costs.
Or you need to build an effective infrastructure,
because you have a high flow of personnel,
changes are happening very slowly, it is not clear what is happening.
Or you have some new business direction,
you need to understand how it will deal with the already existing,
what processes will change and how to implement it correctly.
Or you want to publish business, for example, to introduce a franchise.
Or you want to introduce an automated accounting system.
Or you want to conduct, for example, audit of personnel and select completely new frames,
because the current ones will not suit you.
Or it is a financial accounting, or it is a merger and absorption,
it can be an increase in market value, in general, it can be anything.
But the main thing is that the goal is clearly described and understood by everyone.
Because without a goal, it is not clear why you are doing this.
Without a goal, you will not be motivated to implement this system,
so that it is not from under the stick.
If your boss told you that we are introducing a process system,
do not be afraid, come to him, ask why, let him tell you,
let him hold a single seminar on business processes of your company.
For example, in a company where I once worked as an internal business analyst,
its director, the owner, decided that we would introduce a process management system.
What did it lead to?
I came, I was told that everyone was already aware,
everyone would participate in the description of business processes and their optimization.
I believed, and began to go, respectively, to people, to ask.
Are business processes high-level? We'll talk about it a little later.
Or are business processes of lower level?
Described in what environment? And so on and so forth.
But no one could answer all my questions, because they did not understand what it was about.
As a result, it turned out that someone had heard about it.
But in fact, no one could imagine what it was, why it was necessary.
As a result, we held a general seminar for the heads of departments,
where it was told what a process management system is,
why it is introduced in a company, what are its pros and cons,
what will be introduced in this particular company, where we will work,
how it will happen, who is responsible, and so on.
After this seminar, everything was very clear.
And after this seminar, managers immediately began to come to us in the business processes department
and say, I want to participate, I would like to optimize this process,
I have such and such wishes for it.
Without such an introductory seminar, everyone was tuned to some one wave.
It is impossible to introduce a process management system.
So, how does the system function?
First, we develop a process model of your company as it is.
This is very important.
That is, you do not need to immediately describe and generate options on the topic of how you want it to work.
First, we describe the situation as it is.
Without having an idea of ​​what we have today,
we will not be able to understand all the cons, all the interactions,
and we will not be able to analyze and develop a high-quality system of process management of the organization.
So, first, the model as it is.
Then, the analysis of the model as it is.
Then, the development of the model as it should be.
Then, the development of the regulations as it should be.
And only then, the optimization of the organizational structure.
Only in such a sequence.
So, what's next?
If we talk about how we analyze business processes as it is,
analyze our model as it is,
then we must refer to the following tools.
We look at the strategy document of your organization.
We look at the strategic maps of your company.
We look at the accounting maps of your company.
That is, this must be taken into account.
And we look at the marketing results of the external environment.
These additional tools will help us analyze the situation as it is.
Now, let's move on to the most important point.
Now we will talk about the identification of business processes.
So, where does it all start?
We start with the allocation of business processes of the very highest level.
In other words, we roughly divide the activities of your company into several main blocks.
There will be about 20 of them.
There will be 30, 40, 50.
Cut it out.
This means that you have highlighted too much detail.
Second, we divide your organizational structure as it is now into departments, groups, units, etc.
While we describe everything as it is.
That is, we describe the business processes at the top level as it is,
the organizational structure as it is, and then the distribution of responsibilities as it is.
This is all as it is.
How are business processes of the top level identified?
So, we are now recalling what your organization was created for.
What are the main business directions of its activities?
Based on these business directions, we can identify what are the main business processes of your business.
For example, your company was created to develop marketing concepts of other companies.
For example, you are a consulting agency for the development of marketing strategies.
This means that you can have business directions for the development of marketing concepts for small companies, for large companies, and, for example, for medium-sized companies.
Because, in principle, these are different things.
Or, if you are a dairy factory, then you can have business directions for dairy and dairy products.
If you are a clothing agency, then it can be business directions for leather and fur, for example.
That is, when we identify business processes at the top level, we start with business directions of your activities.
So, we have identified it.
The most basic.
I want to say right away that you do not need to confuse what is called business direction and business options.
That is, you do not need to select business directions from the series of products for jackets, leather, fur, and, for example, boots.
This means that you have selected business directions incorrectly.
You should have a single criterion for selecting business directions.
This is A.
Either the material, that is, leather or fur.
Or it will be the type of product, clothes or shoes.
Or it will be according to the consumer, physical or legal.
That is, you do not need to mix everything into one pile.
You select business directions according to some criteria.
Then you can further divide, for example, leather products into clothes, shoes, and so on.
We have selected business directions for your activities.
For example, you are a company that deals with the construction and technological support of these built objects.
Well, for example.
Let's say that we have now determined that your main business processes will be related to construction and technological support.
All other business processes are our providers.
They have nothing to do with the main business process.
To what level do you need to describe business directions?
In principle, it can be at this level.
For example, construction and technology.
You can go down to a lower level.
For example, construction of shopping centers, car centers, warehouse facilities, and so on.
Technological support of these three objects.
The criteria for decomposition, that is, the criteria for how detailed you will describe your business direction,
depend on the fact that you yourself understand and are comfortable using these criteria.
You do not need to break it down into very small details.
You select the most important thing.
Because business direction is what you will use to select the main business processes.
Now we can determine for ourselves that the business direction of the upper level corresponds to the main business processes of the upper level.
Construction, technology.
The next level is construction of shopping centers, car centers, warehouse facilities.
These are three business processes related to the large business process of construction.
And technological support of shopping centers, car centers, and warehouse facilities.
These are three business processes that will belong to the large business process of the upper level,
which is called technological support or technology.
Now that we have described the business processes of the upper level, we can move on to the main ones.
After all, your organization is not only engaged in construction and technology.
You also have accounting, marketing, strategy development, personnel department, and so on.
This means that you have many other business processes.
We also divide them into large blocks.
In our case, this can be management of personnel, management of marketing, management of strategy, management of finance,
economic support, legal support, and so on.
In other words, we allocate blocks.
When we have allocated all the blocks, we turn to your organizational structure as it is.
And we look at who is responsible for which department or unit or department for each of the blocks.
For example, for construction, you are responsible for the construction department, for technology, for the technology department,
for financial management, you have two departments, accounting and finance.
For management of personnel, management of personnel, and so on.
For strategy, for example, the general director, the development council, and someone else.
All this was described as it is.
Then we do not adjust the business processes to the organizational structure.
If you have several participants, write that there are several of them.
But the main thing is to put the responsible one.
If there is no responsible one, put the general director.
In other words, now we have allocated the business processes of the highest level.
We can make a kind of a table.
For example, write down all the business processes that we have allocated,
write all the names of the units of the highest level that you have in your company.
And at the junction in the cells you can write which unit is responsible,
which unit is a participant of a particular business process.
For example, we have a business process of construction.
We will put the responsible one opposite, at the intersection of the business process of construction and the construction department.
The same goes for technology.
Intersection of the technology department and the business process of technology.
Strategy.
For example, you do not know who is responsible for the strategy,
and no one in the company can answer you.
This means that the general director is responsible.
If no one in the company is responsible for anything,
the general director is responsible for all this.
Or the company manager.
But this position is called differently.
Then, when you get such a big table,
where all the business processes of the highest level are written down by participants and responsible,
you can proceed to the second stage, which is called analysis and optimization of business processes.
But first I want to dwell on a more detailed description of what the main business processes are
and what types of business processes can be identified.
I have already said that there are main business processes.
I think that the name is already clear.
What are these processes?
These are processes that are related to the main activity of your company.
If you have doubts about which business processes to refer to,
forget that you are a manager of a company,
forget about your position, forget about all this.
And imagine that only one person represents your company.
What work will he do first of all?
So that the company continues to exist.
This is the work that will come to your mind first,
and will be your main business process.
Or your non-main business processes, if there are several of them.
Accordingly, business processes are basic.
What are their characteristics?
First, they create an added value for your company.
No other, only these.
They create a product or service or work that your company provides on the market.
You must be a specialist in these processes.
This is your key competence.
If you were not sure about this, you would not have them.
Next, these are business processes that represent the value for your external client.
Externally, that is, not any unit within your company,
but for an external client.
If this value exists, then this is the main business process.
Next, these are business processes for which the client is ready to pay you money.
And finally, another important characteristic.
These business processes are what bring profit to your organization.
Yes, the providing business processes can also bring you profit.
For example, you sold a completely unnecessary computer,
or sold a completely unnecessary furniture, and so on.
This brought you a certain profit.
But there must be a certain constant profit.
And this constant profit is formed by the main business processes.
What about the providing business processes?
Providing business processes help the main business processes to live and develop.
They provide them with the necessary resources.
They create an atmosphere, external conditions,
so that they can function freely and normally,
and bring profit to the company.
Can the providing business processes become the main business processes?
Of course, it can.
But what if your company is re-profiled,
and the legal process is not provided?
What if you want to outsource it,
and create a separate legal consulting department?
Plus, you can build technologies.
Legal consulting in the field of construction is very relevant.
And this will become the main business process.
There are two more types of business processes in many types of business processes description.
These are management processes and development processes.
In most cases, it is enough to highlight the main business processes,
and the providing or auxiliary business processes, as they are also called.
But if you want to list the management or management business processes separately,
here are their characteristics.
First, they provide a long-term development of the organization.
They provide control and management of your company's activities
for all the main business processes.
In principle, they provide,
but they also have control.
Therefore, they can be distinguished separately.
They usually have a standard scheme.
They look about the same,
and then they make a plan,
then they execute it,
then they make a plan-fact ratio,
then they make some adjustments,
and then they execute it.
Examples of such processes are strategy, marketing.
If you have a well-developed staff department,
it can be management of staff.
Not only sets and registration of salaries are carried out,
but also development, training, coaching, and so on.
It can be a business process of financial management,
if it is developed in your company.
It can be a business process of management accounting.
It can be a business process of IT management,
if you have a complex IT system in your company.
There are a lot of them.
If you want, you can not list them as business processes.
You can attach them to the providing.
Another beast is business development processes.
These are business processes,
which are separate projects of your company's development.
For example, you have decided to implement ERP system.
The process that will provide this implementation
will be a business process of development.
They can be compared to projects,
which are introduced into your company,
and they have a characteristic,
they contribute to the long-term development of your company,
but they are not constant.
They can change.
They can depend on the external environment
and constantly change in the composition.
For example, the business process of ERP implementation
can become a business process of CRM implementation next year.
Then there will be a separate additional system.
Maybe, the business process of optimizing personnel's frequency
will be transformed into a business process of optimizing personnel's training system.
This is a business process,
which allows you to quickly switch from the current state to the right one.
Now, when we have highlighted the main business processes of management,
we can look at a specific example.
You may ask, how can we look at an example of such business processes?
Here we have a company,
a real company,
where we participated in the project of ERP implementation.
We have highlighted three types of business processes in this company.
The main business processes,
the supporting business processes,
and the management business processes.
The business processes can be divided into
retail video production,
wholesale video production,
and video production and sales.
As for the supporting business processes,
they were classified as security,
economic and legal.
As for the management business processes,
they were classified as strategic management,
financial management,
personnel, marketing,
and stock management.
In fact, there is no typical list of business processes in the company.
You need to look at each company separately.
And at your company as well.
This is an example of a tree of business processes,
that is, a list of business processes,
which is suitable for a specific organization.
You can focus on it, but you don't need to copy it.
Now, if we consider your company,
you can also write down the main business processes,
which your company has,
and compare them with the supporting and management processes.
Then you can show them to your company's managers.
You can start voting,
show them to your management.
And from these steps you can start doing something.
How to correctly identify the business processes of the highest level?
It's very simple.
Just remember the four basic rules.
First.
We remember what a business process is.
It is a list of functions,
a sequence of functions,
which is assigned something at the beginning,
and then transformed into something at the end.
If the business process you have identified
has something at the beginning,
has a specific result,
then you can assign it to the business processes.
If not, then you don't need to.
This does not apply to the business process.
It can be a part of it, or it can be a function in general.
Next.
Business processes must be equal to the great ones.
If you assign a business process to the highest level,
then you should not have an option
to assign a strategic support,
and next to it there is a process of management
of the application for the supply of goods to the supplier.
These are completely different business processes,
and this should not be allowed.
Third.
The degree of detail of the processes must be observed.
In other words,
you should not assign your business process to 50, 100 or 120.
You should not do this.
There are not so many business processes of the highest level.
Remember that the business process of the highest level
is a block of your company's activity.
50 blocks?
It is impossible.
There are about 20 of them,
check if there are many more.
This means that something can be combined with something.
You have gone too deep.
And finally, the last rule, which you should remember.
This is, as I said, a coordination.
You cannot just as a manager
assign business processes
and then go and describe them.
You should show them to the people
responsible for the business processes,
coordinate with them,
agree or disagree that they participate or are responsible,
show them to the management,
agree or disagree,
hold a seminar
where you can state your vision and concept
of the business process of the highest level.
This should suit absolutely everyone.
Otherwise, it will be just your thoughts on this topic,
but in fact, it will not clash with the real picture
for your company, for your enterprise.
As I said,
we would use
some other system of business process description,
if we did not focus on the main business processes
of management and development,
we could use other models
used by other companies.
In your concept,
you can see
that there are other ways of description.
For example, the BAN model,
the Oracle model,
the 13-process model,
the Share model, etc.
But in fact,
they all refer to the fact
that the business processes
can be added by other processes.
The main thing is to break these two types of activities.
Now let's move on to how business processes are described.
There are two options
for describing business processes.
The first one is vertical and the second one is horizontal.
Vertical is when you just write
that some work consists of such and such work, etc.
You do not write what is at the entrance,
what is at the exit, etc.
If you take a business process of the highest level
and then describe which processes are included in it,
then which functions are included in each process, etc.
You just write the structure,
but you do not write,
you do not specify any documents,
any products that are included,
anything that is not included.
In the second case,
horizontal description is more detailed description,
when you write what is at the entrance,
what is at the exit of each business process.
This is more complicated,
and in the description it takes more time
both physically and then for the agreement.
You can see more details
in the slide Vertical and Horizontal Description of Activity.
Now let's see
how you can describe business processes.
They can be described in different ways.
The first option is text.
This is what you are all used to.
This is a regular regulation.
For example, a department moves a document somewhere.
Table.
This is when you see a table,
you write what is at the entrance,
what is at the exit of the business process,
who is responsible,
to whom it is transmitted,
what is obtained from whom.
This is a scheme.
Now I will show how it looks in detail.
In practice, I want to say that
the easiest way to describe business processes
is a graphical way of writing.
Because it is clear.
A lot of text is perceived very poorly.
Let's see how the description of business processes happens.
Let's say we have highlighted
the business process of the upper level.
Let's say this is a business process
of, for example,
trading,
as we looked at the example of companies,
tea trading.
Here is a business process of tea trading.
Tea trading.
Of course, there are many other business processes
here and here and here.
Then we will describe
these business processes
in more detail.
That is, tea trading in this case
will consist of several sub-processes.
We remember that tea trading
includes
purchasing,
then it includes
storage,
then the letter H,
and then
selling, the letter P.
Accordingly, this is a business process
of the highest level.
This is a model
when we write what is at the entrance,
what is at the exit,
what documents,
products, services, and so on
at the entrance and at the exit.
We call this model
BPA, Business Process Allocation.
When we go down
and describe
what sub-processes,
what functions are included
in this business process of the upper level,
we call it DFD.
The description is called DFD.
It is called Data Flow Diagram.
Then, when we
describe each of these functions
in more detail,
that is, up to the point that
the purchase, for example, the product is ordered,
then we placed it,
here it is placed the order,
then if the order, for example,
passed the supplier,
then it is placed,
if it did not pass, then it is placed before the order,
and so on and so forth.
This is called the DFD scheme,
Workflow Diagram.
That is, it is already an analogue
of the algorithm.
This is the lowest level of the business process description.
That is, in principle,
we can say that
when you have a company,
the business process description takes place,
here all the processes of the upper level are located,
here they are described,
all the works that are included in them,
and then, if you want to write
each work in more detail,
then we move on to the VFD model.
That is, remember again,
BPA, DFD,
or DFD in English,
and VFD.
Everything is very simple.
You may ask,
why describe all the processes
as they are so deeply?
Maybe they are already at this level, not optimal.
Why is this done?
Everything is very simple.
You do not need to describe absolutely all the processes
to this level, you do not need to describe
to the very application, to the level
that the secretary should bring tea to someone,
it is absolutely not necessary.
The idea is to describe these processes
and describe this one.
At this level, you will,
let's say, a little like scanning
this process.
That is, you go down from top to bottom
until you find an error at some level.
If the errors are highlighted at this level,
you can stop and start the analysis.
If the errors are not highlighted at this level,
you can go further, further, further,
until you reach the description
of business processes at the level of an employee.
What do we have here?
What do we have next?
If, for example,
we stop to describe in more detail
the business process
at the highest level,
we can describe who is the supplier
of the very resource,
or information,
or product,
or service that is being
poured at the entrance.
That is, we have a supplier
and some resource.
Then we have the process itself,
and then we have a client,
who needs all this,
and the result of the process.
For each business process
at the highest level,
it is important to develop such a scheme
just to test yourself.
Maybe you highlighted the business process
at the highest level incorrectly,
maybe you highlighted it insufficiently,
maybe you cut off a part of the business process
and cannot highlight its client.
If you cannot find a client of a business process,
if you cannot understand what the result of the process is,
maybe you highlighted it incorrectly.
This means that you need to re-examine
the business process highlighting
at the highest level.
Then, when we go down to the level of DFD,
we do the following thing.
We write what kind of work
should be done,
what are the entrances and exits
of each of the jobs,
what are the resources
at the entrance and at the exit,
what are the executors
of each job,
what are the employees of each job.
It is also very important to do this,
because at this stage
you can make a mistake
and highlight the business process incorrectly.
At the same stage,
you can make a wrong description of the functions.
It is important to understand
that the results are absolutely
in every function.
Next, when we describe the lowest level,
we write, again,
who is responsible
for each of these small functions,
what is the entrance,
what is the exit,
and what are the algorithms,
what if this,
what actions should be taken,
what if there is no action,
what actions should be taken.
All this should be described
to the smallest detail,
so that the executor at the lowest level
would understand what to do in each case.
Only then this algorithm
can be considered, optimized
and turned into a regulation
for the employees.
It is important to remember
that the entrance at this level
is the entrance at this level.
If, for example,
you have a need for a product
at the entrance,
then you should have a need for a product
at the entrance.
If you have a product at the entrance,
then you are already buying,
this is illogical.
This process at the level of DFD
is revealed in more detail.
The entrance of this process
goes here,
the exit of this process goes here.
Thus, we have a more detailed
structured of this process.
When we describe in more detail
some process here,
we transfer the entrance here.
When we talk about the exit,
we transfer it here.
Everything should be described
very clearly.
It should not be like
here is one entrance,
here is another one,
and so on.
There is more detail
in the description.
What options
can we use
to find information
for this description?
I think you know
that there are many ways.
The first one,
which I said several times today,
is a working seminar.
It means that you
discuss the description
of this process,
its suppliers,
its clients,
and you discuss
this description
with them.
After it is approved,
you can let go
some of the employees
and talk only with those
who, for example,
are responsible for this process
and approve the regulation
and discuss it.
The disadvantages are that
it can turn into a mess
if you do not prepare for it in advance.
The second option is an interview.
It means that you,
as a business analyst
or a methodologist
of the Business Process Analysis Department,
make an appointment
with a particular person,
a participant or a person
responsible for a particular
business process or process.
It means that the meeting will be
one-on-one.
Or you can take an assistant
who will record if you do not have time
to ask or record something.
Thus,
it is a tete-a-tete conversation.
You can, in fact,
devote more time
to the specific performer
and to find out how this business
process is going on now.
But
there is a point here.
We are all people
and we are all inclined to lie,
to cheat a little,
to make a little deal,
to fantasize a little.
And very often people,
when you talk to them
about how the business process
is going on now,
start to cheat and add
something from the area
as it should be,
as I see it,
and so on.
After the work seminar
or before the work seminar,
what is better,
make a list.
A list of all people
you would like to talk to.
It will be the process owner,
supplier, client
and a couple of key participants.
Make a list,
meet with everyone,
make a special questionnaire
and tell everyone
how this business process is going on.
Everyone will be cheating,
but in the end, when you compare
the answers of everyone,
you will be able to form your opinion
about how it is going on now.
Meet with other participants
of similar processes,
for example, client processes
or supplier processes.
Make it clear.
The more you make it clear,
the more accurate your situation
will be.
There is an option
to ask a lot of people
for one or two questions.
You can use
questionnaire
and questionnaire.
You can either give it to your employees
or send it on the Internet,
by e-mail,
post it on the server,
and so on.
In other words,
you have a questionnaire
and you ask certain employees
to fill it in.
You can use it
if you need to clarify some detail.
It is impossible to ask a person
to describe the business process
in a questionnaire.
He will describe it in a nutshell
or he will describe the main points.
In short, it will not bring any useful value
to you.
So, the easiest way is
to use a questionnaire or questionnaire.
Next.
You can use
your existing documents and regulations
to ask a person
for a specific question.
But this is the last tool
you need to use.
Why?
As we said,
all documents are written
in a way
that is convenient for you.
No one uses them.
They are stored on shelves
and no one uses them.
When you show your document
to the person,
he will be surprised and ask
if he should do it.
So, documents are
just additional sources of information
to check if you forgot something.
So,
once again,
work seminars, interviews,
questionnaires and documents.
Regulations.
Using this list,
you can describe all business processes
up to the lowest level.
How to conduct
an interview with a person?
How to conduct a work seminar?
This is a question
of psychology.
But I can say
that you should
have a conversation like a conversation with yourself.
I can say from my experience
that when a person
is called for an interview,
it doesn't matter if it is a manager
or a manager,
he is afraid
that he will be fired
for this interview.
He will be fired,
his salary will be reduced,
he will be reprimanded.
Maybe he doesn't know
what he is afraid of,
but he is afraid.
So, it is important to put him to yourself.
It means that you should ask
open questions.
You should ask questions
like how to do it,
why you do it
and what you do here.
It should be a
pleasant environment
in which you can
get enough information
about your business process.
It is important
to give your interviewer
a space,
a field for action.
If you limit him
to specific questions,
you may not get
any additional information
about your business process
or about the business process
of a client or a supplier.
You should describe all business processes.
So, there is no unnecessary information.
All interviews are very important
and all seminars are very important.
So, you should write down
information on a dictaphone
or on a stenograph
or something else.
Then it is collected in a file
and processed.
Because in one interview
you can write down
all the information
about your business process
and about other processes.
It is clear that
you should speak
in a pleasant way,
ask questions,
look good and behave well.
But the most important thing
is to give your interviewer
a space for imagination
and to express himself
to the maximum.
The form of the form
is quite standard.
You can see it
on the following slide.
In fact,
there is nothing complicated.
You just need to write down
what business process is
and then give an opportunity
to send it to the person
you are going to show
the application to.
You just need to write down
what operations are included,
what are the requirements
and what are the requirements
for the application.
There is nothing complicated.
But I repeat that
the application is more like
an additional thing.
You don't need to start
with the application right away.
People still don't know
how to do it.
So they get confused
and ask questions.
It is easier to start
with the application
and then go on with the process.
There are several rules
about business modeling.
The first one is
to confirm and clarify
what you wrote
or created.
Because it is great to be creative
but you need to create a scheme
as we remember.
So you need to clarify
all the schemes and descriptions
you created
and you can't accept it
as a given.
The second one is
to use a dictaphone
when you are conducting
an interview
or a survey
or a seminar.
You need to use a dictaphone,
a notebook, a pen and so on.
You don't need to rely on
memorizing everything.
You need to record everything.
And there are a lot of things
you can do with a dictaphone.
If you are shy,
record everything by hand.
You can use your colleagues
and conduct an interview
or a seminar.
You can use
a simplified language
to conduct an interview.
If you come to an unprepared person
and ask him
to describe the business process
of your company,
what do you think
he will say?
I think he won't say anything good.
So use something he understands.
Put yourself in his shoes.
How would you react
if you were told
and you didn't attend any seminars
or conduct any training?
You probably didn't understand
what I was talking about.
So use a simple,
understandable and accessible language.
Don't be distracted
by the current organizational structures
and who obeys whom.
Remember that processes
and structures are secondary.
Remember the goal
of the process management
of your company
when you make a description.
It shouldn't be a description.
Let everyone like it.
We had one client.
They made a lot of great business processes
up to the lowest level.
They were like
a secretary or a cleaner.
We asked them
what was the goal
of their description.
They didn't answer.
They said
it was great
and they understood
who obeys whom.
We described the scheme
and what's next.
I think it's nothing special.
So if you don't remember the goal
and don't know why you do it,
it's better not to do it.
So always remember
the goal,
why you do it,
your role in it
and the current status
of the process management.
And one more important thing.
Always remember
that there are situations
when you do it right,
when you do it wrong,
when you do it right.
There are situations
when you want to do it right.
You don't need to confuse
all three options.
You need to do it right.
That's why you need
so many details
and so many ways
to get information
like seminars, interviews,
surveys, documents, etc.